---
title: Principle
publish_date: 2023-06-01
---

I was born in India. I was a quiet kid who mostly kept to himself. From an early
age, I was interested in building things - legos, electronics, robotics,
computer programs. Around the age of 12, I got hooked on to programming. I felt
like I had attained super powers without any knowledge on how to use them.

I went to university in a different country, explored a lot of different
subjects (astronomy, computer science, economics, forensic science, mathematics,
philosophy, statistics), met different people, ate different food and travelled
to different places.

During my studies, I struggled to find clarity and direction in life. It was
only after watching Bret Victor's talk `Inventing on Principle` that things
started to click and make sense.

"I'm gonna talk about following a principle. Finding a guiding principle for
your work. Something you believe is important and necessary and right. And using
that to guide what you do." - Bret Victor

(Note: This is slightly different from Ray Dalio's Principles)

A principle is something you believe in which gives meaning and purpose to your
work and leaves you content and fullfilled. I'm 24 and have only begun to figure
my life out but here is what I believe my principle to be as of today.

Open Governance. But more specifically, technology improves governance improves
society.

Learning technology is like taking an asymmetric bet. The upside of learning how
computers work is greater than its downside (which is the oppurtunity cost of
learning about it over other things). Computers are all around us and you will
utilise that knowledge more than once.

For governance models to improve, people need an internet which is
decentralised, secure and permanent. Decentralised so that no one person or
group of people have control over it. Secure so that data is not accessed by
people with insufficient permissions. Permanent so that even if data is modified
or deleted, there is a record of it.

If you found this interesting and want to chat, feel free to drop me line.
